[GEN-1239] Update data guide for 16.0-public (#20)
Sage-Bionetworks-Workflows/nf-genie: scripts/data_guide/data_guide.qmd

AACR Project GENIE Data is currently available via two mechanisms:

> -   Synapse Platform (Sage Bionetworks): https://genie.synapse.org/ or https://synapse.org/genie

Reviewer: Should we just link to the portal?

Author: I think this is fine for now. Will probably want to do this next data guide update!

[Patient and sample retractions]{.underline}

-   Implicit retraction occurs when data removed from new uploads is automatically excluded from future releases.
-   Explicit retraction occurs when centers submit a retraction file containing a patient or sample ID, often due to a patient's decision to withdraw their consent.

[Age information redaction]{.underline}

When `AGE_AT_SEQ_REPORT`, `INT_CONTACT`, or `INT_DOD` is \>32485 or <6570 days, the fields `BIRTH_YEAR`, `YEAR_CONTACT`, `YEAR_DEATH`, `INT_CONTACT`, `INT_DOD`, and `AGE_AT_SEQ_REPORT` are redacted. If the difference between the `BIRTH_YEAR` and `YEAR_CONTACT` or `BIRTH_YEAR` and `YEAR_DEATH` is greater than 89 years, those values will be redacted.

> -   Intervals are redacted with "\>32485" and "<6570"

Reviewer: Why the `\`?

[Genome Nexus Annotation Status]{.underline}

> Mutation data that fail annotation by Genome-Nexus are excluded from the release. For example, this occurs when the allele extracted from the VCF or MAF file does not match the reference allele, or when the VEP tool is unable to annotate the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mutation data that fails to be annotation by Genome-Nexus is excluded from the release. For example, this occurs when the allele extracted from the VCF or MAF file does not match the reference allele, or when the VEP tool is unable to annotate the data.
```

Author: A combination probably works: `Mutation data that fails to be annotated by Genome-Nexus is excluded from the release.`

> Mutation data that fail annotation by Genome-Nexus are excluded from the release. For example, this occurs when the allele extracted from the VCF or MAF file does not match the reference allele, or when the VEP tool is unable to annotate the data.

Reviewer: Is it worth while to point out genome nexus calls VEP, or link to genome nexus as a tool? Or do we do that earlier?

Author: Will add this correction and add a link to the tool in the next commit.

[Gene symbol harmonization]{.underline}

All submitted HUGO gene symbols will be harmonized against GRCh37 by checking the coordinates against the annotation.

> -   Every single row of the bed file will be matched against the gene database. If the submitted symbol matches a row in the gene database and there is an overlap from the submitted bed region, the submitted symbol will be returned.

Reviewer: Do we need to say how we build the gene database?

Author: How do we build the gene database?

Reviewer: The database was created here: http://ftp.ensembl.org/pub/release-75/gtf/homo_sapiens/Homo_sapiens.GRCh37.75.gtf.gz

`CANCER_TYPE`

* Expected Values: Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (example)
    http://oncotree.mskcc.org/#/home?version=`r strsplit(oncotree_link, "=")[[1]][2]`
* Data Description: The primary cancer diagnosis label, or "main type", based on the OncoTree ontology. For example, the OncoTree code of LUAD maps to: “Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer”.

`CANCER_TYPE_DETAILED`

* Expected Values: Lung Adenocarcinoma (example)
    http://oncotree.mskcc.org/#/home?version=`r strsplit(oncotree_link, "=")[[1]][2]`
* Data Description: The detailed primary cancer diagnosis label based on the OncoTree ontology. For example, the OncoTree code of LUAD maps to the label: "Lung Adenocarcinoma (LUAD)".

`SAMPLE_CLASS` [Not available for public releases]

* Expected Values: Tumor, cfDNA
* Data Description: This sample category of either Tumor or circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) type. cfDNA samples are filtered out in public releases.

`SEQ_YEAR` [Not available for public releases]

* Expected Values: [Integer]
* Data Description: The year the sample was sequenced.

### Linking clinical data to genomic data

> +---------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+

Reviewer 2: I personally use https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=darkriszty.markdown-table-prettify to re-format markdown tables. It shouldn't cause problems not being formatted, but it's a bit nicer when looking at the non-rendered content.
